# 1. Installing basic software

In This Lesson
1. [What tools do I actually need, right now?](#what-tools-do-i-actually-need-right-now)
1. [What Tools do the professionals use?](#what-tools-do-the-professionals-use)

---

## What tools do I actually need, right now?

1. Installing a text editor
    - Notpad (By default windows includes)
    - TextEdit (By default macOS includes)
    - GNOME Text Editor (in Ubuntu)
    - Visual Studio Code (free and Open Source)

1. Installing Modern web Browsers
    - Firefox
    - Google Chrome
    - Opera
    - Brave
    - Microsoft Edge
    - Safari

1. Installing a local web server
    - Using an extension in your code editor(live server, vscode-preview-server)
    - Using Python

> Python Server
> 1. Install Python 
> 2. Open your command prompt (Windows) / terminal (macOS/ Linux). To check if Python is installed, enter the following command:

```zsh
python -V
# If the above fails, try:
python3 -V
# Or, if the "py" command is available, try:
py -V
```

> 3. This should return a version number. If this is OK, navigate to the directory that your example is inside, using the cd command.

```zsh
# include the directory name to enter it, for example
cd Desktop
# use two dots to jump up one directory level if you need to
cd ..
```

> 4. Enter the command to start up the server in that directory:

```zsh
# If Python version returned above is 3.X
# On Windows, try "python -m http.server" or "py -3 -m http.server"

>>> python3 -m http.server

# If Python version returned above is 2.X

>>> python -m SimpleHTTPServer
```

> 5. By default, this will run the contents of the directory on a local web server, on port 8000. You can go to this server by going to the URL localhost:8000 in your web browser. Here you'll see the contents of the directory listed — click the HTML file you want to run.  

    Note: If you already have something running on port 8000, you can choose another port by running the server command followed by an alternative port number, e.g. python3 -m http.server 7800 (Python 3.x) or python -m SimpleHTTPServer 7800 (Python 2.x). You can then access your content at localhost:7800.        

5. Running Server-side languages locally
    - To run Python server-side code, you'll need to use a Python web framework. There are many popular Python web frameworks, such as Django (a guide is available), Flask, and Pyramid.
    - To run Node.js (JavaScript) server-side code, you'll need to use raw node or a framework built on top of it. Express is a good choice — see Express Web Framework (Node.js/JavaScript).
    - To run PHP server-side code, launch PHP's built-in development server

|[Back To Top](#1-installing-basic-software)|
|-|

---

## What Tools do the professionals use?

1. A Computer
    - Windows
    - linux
    - macOS
1. Text Editor
    - VIM
    - Visual Studio Code
    - Sublime Text
    - Notepad ++
    - GNU Emacs
    - Dreamweaver (hybrid-editor)
    - WebStorm (hybrid-editor)
1. Web Browsers
    - Firefox
    - Chrome
    - Safari
    - Microsoft Edge
    - Lynx
1. A Graphics Editor
    - GIMP
    - Figma
    - Paint.NET
    - Photoshop
    - Sketch
    - XD
1. A Version Control System
    - Git
    - GitHub (Hosting service)
    - GitLab (Hosting Service)
1. An FTP Program (older web hosting accounts)
    - Cyberduck
    - Fetch
    - FileZilla
1. An Automation system
    - Webpack
    - Grunt
    - Gulp
1. Libraries, Frameworks, etc.



|[Back To Top](#1-installing-basic-software)|
|-|
